# Hyperspectral remote sensing image datasets
## Indian Pines \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
This scene was gathered by AVIRIS sensor over the Indian Pines test site in North-western Indiana and consists of 145\times145 pixels and 224 spectral reflectance bands in the wavelength range 0.4–2.5 10^(-6) meters. There are two major dual lane highways, a rail line, as well as some low density housing, other built structures, and smaller roads. Since the scene is taken in June some of the crops present, corn, soybeans, are in early stages of growth with less than 5% coverage. The ground truth available is designated into sixteen classes and is not all mutually exclusive. We have also reduced the number of bands to 200 by removing bands covering the region of water absorption: [104-108], [150-163], 220.

## Houston-2013 \[[link](https://hyperspectral.ee.uh.edu/?page_id=459)]
The Houston data was acquired by the ITRES CASI-1500 sensor and provided by the 2013 IEEE GRSS Data Fusion Competition. The data size is 349*1905 and contains 144 bands with a spectral range from 364nm to 1046nm. Land feature coverage is labeled into 15 categories as shown in the figure below.

## DFC Houston-2018 \[[link](https://hyperspectral.ee.uh.edu/?page_id=1075)]
DFC2018 Houston is the data set used in the 2018 IEEE GRSS Data Fusion competition. This data was produced and made public by the laboratory of Dr. Saurabh Prasad at the University of Houston. This data is multi-sensor data, including 48-band hyperspectral data (1 meter), 3-band LiDAR data (0.5 meters), and ultra-high-resolution images (0.05 meters). This data contains 20 types of features.

## Pavia Centre and University \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
These are two scenes acquired by the ROSIS sensor during a flight campaign over Pavia, nothern Italy. The number of spectral bands is 102 for Pavia Centre and 103 for Pavia University. Pavia Centre is a 1096*1096 pixels image, and Pavia University is 610*610 pixels, but some of the samples in both images contain no information and have to be discarded before the analysis. The geometric resolution is 1.3 meters. Both image groundtruths differenciate 9 classes each. It can be seen the discarded samples in the figures as abroad black strips.

## Salinas \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
This scene was collected by the 224-band AVIRIS sensor over Salinas Valley, California, and is characterized by high spatial resolution (3.7-meter pixels). The area covered comprises 512 lines by 217 samples. As with Indian Pines scene, we discarded the 20 water absorption bands, in this case bands: [108-112], [154-167], 224. This image was available only as at-sensor radiance data. It includes vegetables, bare soils, and vineyard fields. Salinas groundtruth contains 16 classes.

## Salinas-A scene \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
An small subscene of Salinas image, denoted Salinas-A, is usually used too. It comprises 86*83 pixels located within the same scene at [samples, lines] = [591-676, 158-240] and includes six classes.

## Xuzhou \[[link](https://ieee-dataport.org/documents/xuzhou-hyspex-dataset)]
The Xuzhou dataset was collected by an airborne HYSPEX hyperspectral camera over the Xuzhou peri-urban site in November 2014. This dataset consists of 500 × 260 pixels, with a very high spatial resolution of 0.73 m/pixel. The number of spectral bands used in the experiment was 436, after removing the noisy bands ranging from 415 nm to 2508 nm. The scene is peri-urban and is characterized by nine categories, including crops, vegetation, man-made structures, and coal fields The very high spatial resolution and the complex mixed categories make this dataset a challenging dataset for classification.

## Xiongan \[[link](http://www.hrs-cas.com/a/share/shujuchanpin/2019/0501/1049.html)]
The Xiongan dataset was collected by the high-resolution special aviation system full-spectrum multi-modal imaging spectrometer developed by the Shanghai Institute of Technical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. The spectral range is 400-1000nm, 250 bands, and the image size is 3750×1580 pixels. There are 19 types of land features in total, including rice stubble, grassland, elm trees, ash, Sophora japonica, vegetable fields, poplar trees, soybeans, black locusts, rice, water bodies, willows, compound-leaf maples, locust trees, peach trees, corn, pear trees, Lotus leaves, architecture.

## Washington DC \[[link](https://engineering.purdue.edu/~biehl/MultiSpec/hyperspectral.html)]
The WashingtonDC data is an aerial hyperspectral image acquired by the Hydice sensor. The data contains a total of 191 bands from 0.4 to 2.4 µm visible light and near-infrared bands, and the data size is 1208*307. Feature categories include rooftops, streets, gravel paths, grass, trees, water, and shadows.

## Kennedy Space Center (KSC) \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
The NASA AVIRIS (Airborne Visible/Infrared Imaging Spectrometer) instrument acquired data over the Kennedy Space Center (KSC), Florida, on March 23, 1996. AVIRIS acquires data in 224 bands of 10 nm width with center wavelengths from 400 - 2500 nm. The KSC data, acquired from an altitude of approximately 20 km, have a spatial resolution of 18 m. After removing water absorption and low SNR bands, 176 bands were used for the analysis. Training data were selected using land cover maps derived from color infrared photography provided by the Kennedy Space Center and Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery. The vegetation classification scheme was developed by KSC personnel in an effort to define functional types that are discernable at the spatial resolution of Landsat and these AVIRIS data. Discrimination of land cover for this environment is difficult due to the similarity of spectral signatures for certain vegetation types. For classification purposes, 13 classes representing the various land cover types that occur in this environment were defined for the site.

## Botswana \[[link](https://www.ehu.eus/ccwintco/index.php/Hyperspectral_Remote_Sensing_Scenes)]
The NASA EO-1 satellite acquired a sequence of data over the Okavango Delta, Botswana in 2001-2004. The Hyperion sensor on EO-1 acquires data at 30 m pixel resolution over a 7.7 km strip in 242 bands covering the 400-2500 nm portion of the spectrum in 10 nm windows. Preprocessing of the data was performed by the UT Center for Space Research to mitigate the effects of bad detectors, inter-detector miscalibration, and intermittent anomalies. Uncalibrated and noisy bands that cover water absorption features were removed, and the remaining 145 bands were included as candidate features: [10-55, 82-97, 102-119, 134-164, 187-220]. The data analyzed in this study, acquired May 31, 2001, consist of observations from 14 identified classes representing the land cover types in seasonal swamps, occasional swamps, and drier woodlands located in the distal portion of the Delta.

## Eagle_reize \[[link](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Main_zip/2007723/3)]
Eagle_reize data is acquired by SPECIM AsiaEAGLE II sensor. The data size is 2082*1606 and contains 252 bands with a spectral range from 401nm to 999nm. The training samples provided include 10 types of land objects. Because this data has supporting Lidar data, it can be used for separate hyperspectral image classification, or for fusion of hyperspectral images and Lidar images.

## HyRANK \[[link](http://www2.isprs.org/commissions/comm3/wg4/HyRANK.html)]
HyRANK data is acquired by Hyperion sensors. Two hyperspectral images for training and three hyperspectral images for testing are included. Each of the five images has 176 spectral bands, and the image sizes vary. The training samples provided include 14 types of land objects.
